We've come to our principal talk for this
141st class of Gillian, the graduation.
And we're going to invite Brother Garrett and Lush now.
I thought you'd find this interesting.
This is the 141st class.
We've heard that throughout the morning.
Well, 100 classes ago, Brother Lush was graduating from the 41st class.
And I don't know if heaven did it, but we had an Austrian in each one of those.
So that's very nice.
I don't want to say anything that he is getting a little older, but he still looks great, doesn't he?
Because he knew the sister in this class, when she was just a tiny little girl.
So very nice, and with a Lush gave me that information, so it's bona fide.
So Brother Lush, as you want to speak on the theme, make good use of your time.
What's the time?
Well, anyway, it's time to start.
There are certain things of which the richest and the poorest person on earth have the same.
Number one, life.
Second, two parents.
Third, a free will.
And fourth, time.
Poor and rich have all 24 hours a day.
Therefore, it's not quite correct to say one has no time or plenty of time.
All have the same, 24 hours.
The word time is an integral part of our vocabulary.
What is time?
Some say time is money.
If we make decisions, time will tell whether they are good ones.
In the world, some make wrong decisions, and then therefore they have to do time in prison.
When driving a car, we may make good time.
Although from time to time, we may stop and have a snack.
We are taking our time, if we do not hurry.
We may still arrive on time, or even ahead of time, if we time it right.
But at times, we may still be late, especially if our timing was poor,
which may not be all the time, just from time to time.
After we arrive at our destination, the time has arrived to have a good time.
But in a more serious note, how does the Bible use the term time?
Ecclesiastes chapter 3 verse 1 says,
There is an appointed time for everything, a time for every activity under the heavens.
For birth and for death, to plant, to abroot, to tear down, to build up,
to weep, and to laugh, to wail, and to dance, a time to keep,
and a time to throw away, like when we have to move to another complex.
It is now the acceptable time to preach,
because the appointed times of the nations are over, and we are living in the time of the end.
Therefore, we should be zealous in line with the urgency of times.
Jehovah blesses the work, and said that he will speed it up at its own time.
The Greek adjective Ayonios can, as is evident from the context,
to signify both long-lasting and everlasting.
From the first man Adam forward, time has been measured in terms of years.
Thus, Adam was 130 years old when he became father to Seth.
Monthly divisions also came into use.
By the time of the flood, we find time divided into months of 30 days,
and a period of five months is shown in the Bible to equal 150 days.
The same record also indicates that Noah divided the year into 12 months.
To track time, a calendar is used for dividing time into years, months, weeks, and days.
The world's oldest calendar was discovered in a Scottish field at Warren Field,
according to BBC News from the end 2013, a National Geographic of July 15, 2013.
It was excavated first in the year 2004 only.
To track time during the day, also sundials were invented.
They are considered the first time measuring devices known to men.
Dating to the 19th dynasty or the 13th century before a common era,
a few years ago a sundial was found on the floor of a workman's hut
in the valley of kings, the burial place of rulers from Egypt.
In 1675, King Charles II of England commissioned that a small observatory be constructed
in what is now the London Borough of Greenwich in order to defining out of the longitude of places
for perfecting navigation and astronomy. Two newly invented timepieces with pendulums,
13 feet or four meters long were installed to make accurate calculations of the Earth's rotation.
Noon Greenwich mean time is the moment when the sun reaches its zenith over any point
on the Greenwich longitude line or meridian from Latin Meridianus of mid-day.
Based on this Latin word, time before Noon came to be known as ante meridian or
before mid-day and time after Noon came to be known as post meridian or pm as we call it.
Today time is measured for accuracy with atomic clocks. They are regulated by atomic vibrations
and are accurate to one second in 80 million years. Very accurate. Again, what is time?
You have heard the saying as time goes by or time flies. But this is scripturally not quite correct.
Time does not go or walk or fly. We fly. And this is supported in Psalm 90, verse 10,
where Moses wrote this Psalm, not David, and it says in verse 10, the span of our life is 70 years
or 80 if one is especially strong, but they are filled with trouble and sorrow. They quickly pass by
and away we fly, not the time. When a man dies, time is still there and hasn't flown anywhere.
Again, what is time? 12 o'clock Noon in New York is 12 o'clock midnight in Mongolia.
When you cross the date line westbound, suddenly you have lost the day seemingly, but did you really lose a day?
No, it's just a perception. To the contrary, when you come from Japan to the United States, you
seem to gain a day crossing the date line eastbound. But does this change the reality of time? No.
You have not become a day younger. Sorry. What's the time on North Pole, exactly on North Pole?
If you stay on the North Pole, does time move on? Something to think about.
Now really, time is an abstract concept that humans have invented to explain, compare, and measure
what we observe. Sometimes time seems to move faster than at other times. There's an old saying
that the watched kettle never boils. It's true that when we are watching time, when we are conscious
of it, when we are waiting for something to happen, then it seems to pass ever so slowly.
However, if we are busy, if we are interested in and preoccupied with what we are doing,
then it really appears that time flies. Moreover, with older people, time seems to pass
much more quickly than with young children. And why is this? One year added to the life of a one
year old means a hundred percent increase. One year added to the life of a 50 year old means just
two percent more. The perception of time is also subject to circumstances. When a couple in love
meets, they wish time would stand still. Is it not so? But they cannot slow down what is perceived
this time. On the other hand, when somebody is sick in a hospital bed, he might wish that time
more quicker, quicker so he could recover sooner and go home sooner. But he cannot speed up
the passing of time. Time is an observed phenomenon by means of which we humans sense and record
changes in our environment and in the universe. In the universe, time is measured based on the speed
of light, which is a constant. The Michelson-Molly experiment around the end of the 19th century
discovered that the speed of light is the same regardless of the direction it's heading
and regardless of the motion of the originating source. Life moves at about 300,000 kilometers per
second. It takes about 100,000 years for a beam of light to travel from just one end of our Milky Way
to the other end. And our Milky Way is said to have 200 billion stars like the Sun.
What you see when you look up at night to the night sky, it's not what is there now,
but what was there in the past. When a light beam from a star that is a million light years away
hits the Earth, it means that the object that you now see was there a million years ago.
To see what is there now and whether the star even still exists, you need to wait another
until the light beam from that place arrives at the Earth. Just imagine. Looking at the universe,
we always look only into the past. It is estimated that the visible universe exists in 13
billion years. Most scientists agree that it had a beginning, so-called Big Bang.
The Bible says in the beginning God created and that includes the visible universe.
The universe expands in all directions. Scientists have not found an end of the visible universe
with optical telescopes or radio telescopes, but if one would continue to travel through space long
enough logically one should come to an area where there are no more stars or galaxies just empty
space. Some known galaxies are moving into that empty space or toward that empty space with
about the speed of light. It's very impressive. Some scientists say time does not exist.
It exists however definitely in our perception. Man invented the concept of time to be able to
measure changes. Deep time always exists. Well in Jude verse 25 we can read what it says there
from our own Bible. It says to the only God in Savior through Jesus Christ our Lord,
big glory, majesty, might and authority for all past eternity and now and into all eternity.
Well we know Jehovah had no beginning. We have a hard time grasping that. When Jehovah was alone
before he created the logos there was no change because Jehovah does not change.
This helps us to understand in what way Jehovah always existed. Jehovah is not subject to time. He
exists independently and outside from what we perceive as time. Where the new world translation
translates past eternity in Jude 25 the Greek original text says before all time. Surprise,
surprise, before time. The conclusion is that time had a beginning. Is this a new understanding?
No. If you want to put down a reference watch tower 1982 September 1.
September 1 page 22 in paragraph 17 it says about this verse in Jude 25. Jude appropriately
ascribed to glory, majesty, might and authority to Jehovah for all past eternity or
to quote the watch tower before all time as men might know it. We seem safe to say the time as we know
it as humans came into being when Jehovah started to create first the logos. But what we perceive
as time now will continue forever and ever in the future. In 1 Corinthians chapter 7, 29 it says more
over this I say, brothers, the time left is reduced. Christ had given His disciples the sign of His
presence and had warned them. Keep on the watch therefore because you do not know on what they
argue, the Lord is coming. Matthew 24, verse 3 and 42. The time left was reduced in the sense that
those first Christians and century Christians had to live constantly in expectation of Christ's
coming. Furthermore, they did not know how much time remained for them individually before
time and unforeseen occurrence brought their life to a close. As an important event near,
there is an increased sense of urgency. How can we illustrate that? Well, suppose there is a
waiting. The days before are very busy in order to prepare well for the event. Even on the waiting
day the bride will be urgently preparing herself so the waiting part it does not have to wait,
which would be very impolite. If you have to catch a flight you are perhaps urgently nervously
preparing your luggage making sure that you are at the airport on time because you do not want to
miss the flight. Suppose a farmer has a mature crop ready to be harvested. Suddenly there is a
storm warning. Dark clouds loom at the horizon. The storm could destroy the crop. Don't you think
that he will urgently organize his whole household to go out to the field and begin to bring in the
crop before the storm hits? Christians are involved in a harvesting work. John 435,
quote Jesus saying, view the fields that they are ripe for harvesting. The harvest time will soon be
over. So are we making good use of our time to help bring in the harvest? The harvest is great,
but the workers are few, said Jesus, Matthew 935. And that shows the urgency. The hurricane of the
great tribulation is close. It's a hurricane in the illustration so we need to hurry.
When a woman is close to giving birth and the birth pangs started, the water broke, let's say,
then it is urgent to rush her to the hospital or call a midwife to come to the home.
Jesus death was a much more important event than awaiting a birth or a slight or a crop.
As the appointed time for Jesus' sacrificial death drew near his sense of urgency increased.
Jesus stepped up his activity and his preaching as the time for him to be on earth ran out.
True Christians have always lived with a sense of urgency. In the first century, Christians in
Judea and Jerusalem needed to keep on the watch and that was imperative because Jesus warned
that the Roman armies would come and would attack the city. And he said, let those in Judea begin
fleeing to the mountains. It was urgent. Now more than ever, the time that remains before Jehovah
destroys false religion through political elements is reduced. It is vital then that we make
wise use of our time that the time that remains. How? As the Apostle Paul explains in Ephesians 5, 16,
we must buy out the opportune time for the more important things at the expense of what is
non-essential. We need to make every day count. Do we live as though the end could come at any time
or do we live as though it is far off? Jesus warned, the Son of Man is coming at an hour that you do
not think to be it. Matthew 24, 44. Our pattern of life reflects how much we trust in Jehovah
by putting faith in his prophetic word, keeping the urgency of the times in mind.
A void, a complacent attitude like the people of Sodom and Gomorrah had. They were eating,
drinking, buying, selling, planting, building said Jesus. But on the day that a lot came out of
Sodom, it rained fire and sulfur from heaven and destroyed them all. Luke 17, 28, 19. It was urgent
for a lot in his family to flee and it is urgent for us too. We need to be prepared.
We can prepare, for instance, if we live in an earthquake zone by having our houses built,
earthquake proof. It costs more effort, more time involved, preparing the house, but when an
earthquake hits, then we are better prepared to survive. Revelation refers to the four angels who
have prepared the hour or have been prepared for the hour and day and month and year,
units of time that we can understand, Revelation 9, 14, 15. Seeing how prophecies were fulfilled at
specific times should inspire faith in the God of times and seasons and in his word.
So the angels will let loose the four wins of destruction. Are you ready? Jehovah is a perfect time
keeper. Do we make good use of what we perceive as time by attending meetings, reading the Bible
daily, even after giving it graduation and going out and field ministry? Whereas it is appropriate
to take time for leisure and other activities, it is good not to waste time but keep the balance.
If we use time wisely, buying it out by giving priority to spiritual things and sacrifice
less important time as a payment, so to say, then we will see the promise fulfilled to live forever
and ever and ever. No more need then to worry about time, but now is the time to conclude my talk,
so I would not go over time. Thank you very much. Well, although we thoroughly enjoyed that and we
appreciate your hard work and meditation, now we will share some greetings from various branches,
highlight some of the things that they wanted to pass on. Angola, with their faith strengthened by
means of a thorough study of God's word and refined spiritual qualities, the graduates will give
a fine, contribution to further stabilize and strengthen Jehovah's organization. Then Argentina,
although the school of Gilead will soon become a memory, they didn't know about Brother Hurdstock,
you will treasure it for the rest of your lives. Armenia, we rejoice with you graduates on this
special day. We're delighted to see how Jehovah's training more brothers and sisters to take on
additional responsibility. And Benin, you'll find this one quite interesting, this part of it
passed on to all of you and this is to the students or graduates, please hurry up. We are waiting
for you out here in the worldwide field. So Bolivia, our hearts rejoice along with you dear Gilead
graduates on this day that brings so much praise to our Heavenly Father. And then Britain,
what a wonderful blessing and unique privilege it is for each student to have his or her faith
strengthened through an intensive study of God's word. Barundi, five months of Bible training that
you've received will give added impetus to the all-important work of helping all who are rightly
disposed for everlasting life. And then the Congo-Konsasha, we rejoice with those who rejoice, this is indeed
a special day for all the graduates. Georgia, the country, congratulations on successfully
completing the spiritually enriching course of study. Germany, please accept warm love and greetings
from Salter's Bethel in Germany. Jehovah, as our grand instructor, continues to educate his
servants in a wonderful way. Haiti, this graduation is another proof that Jehovah does treat his loyal
servants in a special way. And then France, we wish to send you the very warm love from the
France-Bethel family as you're about to receive your diplomas along with your service assignments.
In Japan, since their warm Christian love and greetings, all graduates must have experienced
firsthand Jehovah's loving care. Kenya, as you now take the benefit of this training with you to
your assignments, we're confident that Jehovah will be with you wherever you go. In the Netherlands,
please accept our warm love and greetings and made Jehovah continue to bless you in your assignment,
whether a new one or one you're familiar with. Nigeria sends their warmest greetings to all.
Paraguay passes on their wish to have Jehovah bless all your efforts in training,
Solomon Islands, known as the Happy Isles, wishes to send their warmest Christian love and greetings.
Suriname, this is quite interesting. They share this point. In 1959, two brothers from Suriname
attended the 32nd class of Gillian. Since then, many in Suriname nurtured the dream of going to
Gillian. Now, 57 years later, we rejoice with the privilege of having one more student attending a class.
And then Thailand, from the land of smiles, we add our happy smiles to yours and send our warm
love and greetings to all on this special day. And finally, Ukraine, during the past five months,
the great potter, Jehovah God, was intensely molding you so that you can now say, we are all the
clay and you are our potter. We are all the work of your hand. So we appreciate those sincere
greetings from our brothers throughout the earth. Now, before we share the diplomas with you,
I want to just pass on these statistics the brothers like to receive these for this particular
141st class. Number of single brothers, 12. Number of single sisters, 4. Number of married couples,
16. Total number of students, 48. Their average age, 40.8.
Average years in the truth, 25.1. Average years in full-time ministry, 19.0.
So for those that love statistics, you now have them. Now, we're going to have the
presentation of the diplomas to the 141st class of Gillian, brother David Schaeffer is going
to help me as a helper to the teaching committee and be helping as we pass on the diplomas to these
graduates of the 141st class of Gillian. So let's take a look at them. First, we have brother and
sister Barnezo, who will be returning to the Philippines. Brother Bingen will be returning to
Suriname. Brother Volk Stahl will be serving in the Solomon Islands. Brother Birchell will be
returning to Liberia. Brother Kano will be returning to Argentina. Brother and sister Cook
will be returning to Britain. Brother and sister Adonites will be returning to Estonia.
Brother and sister Faiz will be returning to Italy. Sister Gashi will be returning to Serbia.
Brother and sister Givis will be returning to Denmark. Brother and sister Gustava will be returning
to France. Brother and sister Janian will be serving in Georgia. Brother and sister Cardipetian
will be returning to Armenia. Brother and sister Kruger will be returning to the Netherlands.
Brother Lobo will be returning to Chile. Brother Mamalashvili will be returning to Georgia.
Brother and sister Martinez will be returning to pedagway.
Brother and sister Bonzulu will be returning to Congo Kinshasa.
Brother and sister Onyangou will be returning to Kenya.
Sister Peya will be returning to Asia.
Brother Prichard will be serving in Benin.
Brother and sister Rosenzvig will be returning to Israel.
Brother and sister Ryan will be returning to Ghana.
Sister Shumy will be returning to Asia.
Brother Steiner will be returning to Germany.
Brother Titus will be returning to Papua New Guinea.
Brother and sister Ungabaya will be returning to Finland.
Brother Vettlovas will be returning to Lithuania.
Brother Wafala will be returning to Kenya.
Sister Sayalad will be returning to Asia.
Brother Yagochinsa will be returning to Russia.
And brother and sister Yiga will be returning to Uganda.
At this point, as we customarily do,
we're going to have the class resolution letter
read, and Brother Richard Cook will do there for the class.
To the governing body and the Bethel family, dear brothers,
from the moment we received our invitations to Gilea
down to this day of graduation, we
feel we have received a gift of undeserved kindness
from Jehovah and his organization.
There is nothing that we have done or could ever do
to deserve the instruction, training, molding,
and loving attention that we have received
over the past five months.
Just as Isaiah chapter 26 verse 12 says,
O Jehovah, everything we have done,
you have accomplished for us.
Jehovah has given us the privilege of experiencing
close association with you, dear brothers,
of the governing body.
Your humility, your love for the brotherhood,
and your absolute determination to follow
Jehovah's direction have deeply impressed us.
We saw this clearly during your faith strengthening lectures,
but also in the lighter moments that you shared
with us outside of the classroom,
all the while preparing for your move to warwick.
Seeing your examples firsthand has only
made us more convinced that this is the organization,
Jehovah is blessing and directing today.
What a true joy it has been for us
to be part of this delightful Bethel family.
You've been an example in hospitality,
making us feel at home away from home.
The excellent work of so many departments
has created an environment where studying day and night
and night and day was both possible and enjoyable.
An essential part of our learning experience
has been seeing the faith of so many of you
long-time members of the family.
We've also learned from the faith of you
the many commuters and temporary volunteers who willingly
make yourselves available to serve here at Bethel.
We are truly grateful to you, our dear instructors,
for generously giving of your very selves
both mind and heart in the way that you have taught us.
During our training, your love for the Bible truth
that you were teaching touched us deeply,
your accuracy and yet your warmth, your seriousness
and yet your humor showed us a balanced worthy of imitation.
Your obvious determination to hold fast
to the direction of the faithful and discreet slave
has made a lasting impression on us.
As we go to our assignments, we are resolved to do
as 1 Peter chapter 4 verse 10 states,
to the extent that each one has received a gift,
use it in ministering to one another
as fine stewards of God's undeserved kindness.
Gilead has been a priceless gift from Jehovah
through all of you.
Having been shown such undeserved kindness,
we desire to use it to demonstrate our love for Jehovah.
More than ever before, we are determined
to continue to advance the preaching of the good news
and to strengthen our brothers.
It is our earnest prayer that this be our life's work,
all to the honor and glory of our Heavenly Father, Jehovah.
Your brothers and sisters of the 141st class of Gilead.
Before we have a brief moment for some,
including comments, I have some more statistics.
But this is a interest to us with the attendance figures.
Canada, 679.
The United States, that's 9,814,
but this is who that includes.
Patterson 3,519.
Brooklyn 1,405.
Fish kill, excuse me, 763.
Wall kill, 2,540.
Warwick 1,219.
Curacao, 61.
Fort Lauderdale, Florida, 134.
Jamaica, 37, and Puerto Rico, 136.
So that makes a grand total of 10,493.
One of the delay was four, but they all know
hundreds of thousands are going to see it pretty soon.
And that's really what wanted to just pass on to you.
Just a brief review of some of the key thoughts
and certainly can't touch on all of it.
But see the cloud, follow the cloud, not men.
Nice reminder.
And of course, you'll always remember Brother Hertz talk.
And a nice thought, smells ring bells.
Again, the translators will have fun with that.
And then the warning about ego, good caution, council.
And nice thoughts about testing Jehovah, then be tested.
And of course, all the good experiences and interviews
and for the most reminding us to make good use of our time.
So it's been a wonderful program.
What's nice, too, because you get into your assignment
and because Jehovah's bless us with the broadcasting
of the program, so that'll be up there in due course.
And now this has been permeating with excitement
with your family and close friends.
And now with Jehovah's blessing on this project,
you can go and play it months from now.
You might face some discouraging circumstance.
Well, go back and you can stop it and think about it.
But I mean, what a blessing.
Especially for your graduates to be able to go back
and then just absorb more.
So keep that in mind and Jehovah.
Well, bless you with good reminders in the days ahead.
So at this point, we're going to invite all of them.
We're supposed to all be ready to sing this new song.
And I know my wife and I practiced.
We hope you practiced, but those that know how to read music,
please sing out and help those around you.
It's a beautiful song.
And I love the lyrics now.
See, because we've had one of my favorites is song 135.
And the song book we have at this point.
But see, this has a message here.
And you're saying it, and you keep this in mind
in your assignment, we will.
That might.
We will keep enduring.
So take these lyrics to heart as you go
to your assignment.
So let's stand and sing song number 154.
And then, brother, Leon Weaver, a helper
to the service community of the governing body,
will conclude with prayer.